https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-21013 (#7935)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: global_hub/global_hub_migrate.adoc

[#global-hub-migrating-managed-clusters]
= Migrating managed clusters (Technology Preview)

With {global-hub}, you can migrate managed clusters from one {acm} hub cluster to another and migrate associated Kubernetes resources, such as, `ConfigMaps` and `Secrets`. 

By using {global-hub} to migrate your managed cluster, you have a unified process that helps you perform the following actions: 

* Reorganize workloads among {acm-short} hub clusters. 
* Move clusters and their resources together. 
* Automate cluster registration and cleanup. 
* Tracks individual steps with detailed status updates. 

[#understanding-migration]
== Understanding the managed cluster migration process 

With {global-hub}, you can manage large fleets of clusters by implementing the event-driven architecture of {global-hub}. Because of this architecture, {global-hub} connects to your managed hub clusters. With the managed cluster migration, you can also implement {global-hub} to communicate, organize, synchronize, and transfer resources among all you hub clusters. 

> The manage cluster migration process requires coordination between a `source` hub and `target` hub. The `multicluster-global-hub-agent` performs the migrations tasks on the `source` and `target` hubs. The `multicluster-global-hub-manager` controls the flow of the migration between the `source` and `target` hub and manages the `ManagedClusterMigration` resources. 

Author: should `source` and `target` be capitalized?

Reviewer: No need to capitalize "source" and "target"

> During the managed cluster migration, the `source` and `target` hub goes through different phases. See the following table to understand the these different phases and their conditions: 

Author: Phase and Condition?

Status and Condition? 

Status and Description? 

In the drafted content and the sample yamls, we use all of them. So let me know what you think here :)

Reviewer: Suggest change it into

During managed cluster migration, the `source` and `target` hubs go through several distinct phases. These phases, along with their conditions, help track the status changes throughout the migration process. The table below outlines each phase and its corresponding condition.

> .Table list of _Phase_ and _Condition_

Author: where would users find this table?

Reviewer: The table is in the migration document to indicates the status value/meaning of the resource.

So what do you mean the "where would users find this table?"

|===
| Phase | Condition 

| `Pending`
| Performs one migration at a time. Other migrations remain `Pending`. 

| `Validating`
| Verifies that the clusters and hub clusters are valid. 

| `Initializing`
| Prepares the `target` hub and `source` hub. 

| `Deploying`
| Migrates selected clusters and their resources. 

| `Registering`
| Restarts the registration of the cluster to the `target` hub. 

| `Cleaning`
| Cleans the resources from both `target` and `source` hub and manages the `rollback` if needed. 

| `Completed`
| Confirms the migrations has successfully completed. 

| `Failed`
| Confirms that the migration has failed and includes this failure message in the `status`.  
|===

*Note:* The `Validating` phase does not check resources such as `ConfigMap` and `Secret`. If you specify resources that do not exist in the `source` hub, the migration fails in the `Deploying` phase. 

[#migrating-managed-clusters]
== Migrating managed clusters 

> To migrate your migrate managed clusters from different {acm-short} hub clusters, install a `Brownfield` environment and import your managed clusters in the `Hosted` mode. 

Author: Do we need to mention Brownfield? None of the steps have references to Brownfield. 

Maybe there should be a prerequisites section for creating a Brownfield environment?

Reviewer 2: Yes. we need to link brownfield doc in here.

> To migrate your migrate managed clusters from different {acm-short} hub clusters, install a `Brownfield` environment and import your managed clusters in the `Hosted` mode. 

Reviewer: we can change the description into here and mention the `hub1` and `hub2` before using it

"
Let’s start with an example: migrating cluster1 from hub1 to hub2.
Recommended: Install the Global Hub in a `brownfield` environment and import the Managed Hub in `hosted` mode.
"
reference the importing managed hub section

> 

Author: for dev and QE reviewers, please add any steps I might have missed.

> Complete the following steps: 

Author: Where are users running these steps? like, where are they creating `hub1`? 

Is it in the Brownfield env? or on their hub cluster?

> . Install {global-hub} on `hub1`. 

Author: I need to specify here that `hub1` is the `source` hub. Can we simply refer to it as a `source` hub throughout the procedure? that would be more consistent and possibly be easier to keep track of instead of use 1 and 2 to make distinctions between the hubs.

Reviewer 2: Agreed. Let's use the consistent keywords. source and target ACM hub.

> . For the `featureGate`, enable the `ImportClusterInHosted`. 

Author: Not sure what `featuregate` is. in the drafted content, I saw that we just said `gate` but then in the yaml, we have `featuregate` what exactly are we enabling the `importcluterinhosted` for?

Reviewer 2: @yanmxa  Please delete related with featuregate contents in the doc.

> . Deploy the {global-hub} agent locally by applying the following YAML: 

Author: am I correct that users would be applying this yaml? if so, where would they be applying it to?

Reviewer 2: The user should apply this yaml in the env which is globalhub operator installed.

Reviewer: @jc-berger Sorry to confuse you. we removed feature gate a few days ago. So for the line 61 ~ 62. you can just modified it into:

. Install the Global Hub on `hub1`, and enable the agent running locally:

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: operator.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha4
  kind: MulticlusterGlobalHub
  metadata:
    name: multiclusterglobalhub
    namespace: multicluster-global-hub
  spec:
    availabilityConfig: High
    installAgentOnLocal: true
    featureGates:
    - feature: ImportClusterInHosted

>       mode: Enable

Reviewer: need to remove the featureGates part now: line 75 ~ line 77

----
+ 

> . In the deployment mode, label `hub2` as `Hosted` by giving it the following label: `global-hub.open-cluster-management.io/deploy-mode=hosted`. 

Reviewer: . Import the managed hub in a hosted mode by labeling `hub2` with label: `global-hub.open-cluster-management.io/deploy-mode=hosted`

. To move the cluster and its related resources, define the `ManagedClusterMigration` by applying the following YAML: 

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: global-hub.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: ManagedClusterMigration
metadata:
  name: migration-sample
spec:
  from: local-cluster <1>
  includedManagedClusters: <2> 
    - cluster1
  includedResources: <3> 
    - configmap/default/foo
    - secret/cluster1/bar
  to: hub2 <4> 
----
<1> The `source` hub which is in this case the `hub1`. 
<2> The `target` hub which is in this case the `hub2`. 
<3> Lists the clusters to be migrated and includes unique cluster names for both `hub1` and `hub2`. 
<4> Specifies the Kubernetes resources to migrate by using the format, `kind/namespace/name`. 

> . Verify that your migration status resembles the following status: 

Author: where would users go to view this verification message?

Reviewer: The status show in the resource `status` session after creating the above resource

[#understanding-imported-hub-clusters]
== Understanding the imported hub clusters 

When you import a {acm-short} hub into the {global-hub} agent, you must add the label, `global-hub.open-cluster-management.io/deploy-mode`. With this label, you indicate that the hub is a managed cluster hub. Without this label, you cannot install the {global-hub} agent. 

The label, `global-hub.open-cluster-management.io/deploy-mode` supports the following values: 

* `default`: Use this value when the {acm-short} hub cluster that is imported does not have self-management enabled. With this value, the `Klusterlet` and {global-hub} agent install directly in the imported {acm-short} hub cluster.    
* `hosted`: Use this value when the {acm-short} hub cluster that is imported does have self-management enabled. Only use this value if the {global-hub} cluster also has self-management enabled and if the `kubeconfig` of the imported {acm-short} hub cluster does not expire. 

[#installing-brownfield-environment]

> == Installing a Brownfield environment 

Author: Couple of questions here: 

1. Please let me know if I am missing steps. 
2. Are installing a brownfield environment, or are we enabling the global hub operator or agent to work within a brownfield environment? 
3. Are you fine with brownfield being its own section? 
4. I can make brownfield a prereq?
5. I think we need to make sure users install a brownfield environment BEFORE migrating managed clusters, so it should either be its own section or a prereq. 
6. If you think it makes more sense to make installing a brownfield environment part of the procedure for migrating managed clusters (like step 1 and 2) then let me know, thanks :)

Reviewer: Answer:
1. No missing steps
2. Yes, in a brownfield, the global hub is installed in a managed hub.
3. I'm ok with that /cc @yahliu 
4. The brownfield needs the operand enable the local agent in global hub cr. There seems no other requirements.
5. Yes, if you want to migrate a cluster, must install the global hub(whether in brownfield and greenfield). We can add a separated session to state how to install the global hub, to import a cluster as a managed hub(@ldpliu is working with that). And reference that link in here.
6. As the above 5, we can reference the installation session in this document.

Author: thanks! I changed the steps, because it seems like we're installing the operator and local agent on a global hub custom resource then configuring global hub custom resource to work within a brownfield environment. 

I know Dangpeng that you're working on some steps, so let me know if there's anything I need to include.

By installing a Brownfield environment in your {global-hub} operator, you can more easily migrate managed clusters. To install a Brownfield environment, complete the following steps: 

. Install the {global-hub} agent on the `source` hub.  
. Enable the {global-hub} agent in a Brownfield environment by applying the following YAML in the `source` hub: 

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: operator.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha4
  kind: MulticlusterGlobalHub
  metadata:
    name: multiclusterglobalhub
    namespace: multicluster-global-hub
  spec:
    availabilityConfig: High
    installAgentOnLocal: true

>       mode: Enable

Reviewer: please remove the `mode: Enable`. It's from featuregate

----

[#migrating-managed-clusters]

> == Migrating managed clusters 

Author: Let me know if I'm missing any steps :)

After installing a Brownfield environment, migrate your managed clusters by importing them in the `Hosted` mode. 

Complete the following steps: 

. Import the managed hub in a `Hosted` mode by giving `hub2` the following label:  `global-hub.open-cluster-management.io/deploy-mode=hosted`. 

> . To move the cluster and its related resources, define the `ManagedClusterMigration` by applying the following YAML: 

Reviewer: I suggest will the following state:

To migrate a managed cluster, the following steps will install the Global Hub in a brownfield environment and import the managed hub in **hosted** mode. For example, when migrating `cluster1` from `hub1` to `hub2`, follow these steps:

- **Install the Global Hub** in a brownfield environment — in the `hub1` cluster (and installing it in `hub2` is also supported), and ensure enableLocalAgent is true in such mode.
- **Import the managed hub** in `Hosted` mode by labeling `hub2` with:

   ```
   global-hub.open-cluster-management.io/deploy-mode=hosted
   ```
- **Initiate the migration** by defining a `ManagedClusterMigration` resource. Apply the following YAML:

*(...insert YAML here...)*

Author: Thanks! So it seems like we're taking the global hub custom resource that we configured to work within a brownfield environment and then installing that global hub cr in a brownfield environment into the hub1 cluster 

let me know if I am misunderstanding something

.Table list of _Phase_ and _Condition_
|===
| Phase | Condition 

| `Pending`
| Performs one migration at a time. Other migrations remain `Pending`. 

| `Validating`
| Verifies that the clusters and hub clusters are valid. 

| `Initializing`
| Prepares the `target` hub and `source` hub. 

| `Deploying`
| Migrates selected clusters and their resources. 

| `Registering`
| Restarts the registration of the cluster to the `target` hub. 

| `Cleaning`
| Cleans the resources from both `target` and `source` hub and manages the `rollback` if needed. 

| `Completed`
| Confirms the migrations has successfully completed. 

| `Failed`
| Confirms that the migration has failed and includes this failure message in the `status`.  
|===

*Note:* The `Validating` phase does not check resources such as `ConfigMap` and `Secret`. If you specify resources that do not exist in the `source` hub, the migration fails in the `Deploying` phase. 

[#understanding-imported-hub-clusters]
== Understanding the imported hub clusters 

> When you import a {acm-short} hub into the {global-hub} agent, you must add the label, `global-hub.open-cluster-management.io/deploy-mode`. With this label, you indicate that the hub is a managed cluster hub. Without this label, you cannot install the {global-hub} agent. 

Reviewer: 1. remove the agent from here "When you import a {acm-short} hub into the {global-hub} agent"
2. "Without this label, you cannot install the {global-hub} agent. "  -> "Without this label, you cannot install the {global-hub} agent in the imported cluster. "

The label, `global-hub.open-cluster-management.io/deploy-mode` supports the following values: 

* `default`: Use this value when the {acm-short} hub cluster that is imported does not have self-management enabled. With this value, the `Klusterlet` and {global-hub} agent install directly in the imported {acm-short} hub cluster.    
* `hosted`: Use this value when the {acm-short} hub cluster that is imported does have self-management enabled. Only use this value if the {global-hub} cluster also has self-management enabled and if the `kubeconfig` of the imported {acm-short} hub cluster does not expire. 

[#installing-brownfield-environment]

> == Installing {global-hub} in a Brownfield environment 

Reviewer: Suggest change this session into "preparing the migration environment"

> Install your {global-hub} operator and local agent in a {global-hub} custom resource within a Brownfield environment to more easily migrate managed clusters. Complete the following steps: 

Author: when we say local agent, do we mean a global hub agent? 

So installing two separate things: 1) global hub operator ; 2) global hub agent 

installing them on a global hub cr then installing/configuring this global hub cr to work within a brownfield environment?

Reviewer: Yes, the local agent means install the global hub agent in the local cluster.

So installing two separate things: 1) global hub operator ; 2) global hub operand(which enabled local agent)

Correct! Brownfield means the global hub agent also runs in the current global hub cluster.

> Install your {global-hub} operator and agent into a {global-hub} custom resource within a Brownfield environment to more easily migrate managed clusters. Complete the following steps: 

Reviewer: The following example installs the {global hub} in a brownfield environment. In this case, we install the {global hub} on the `source` hub and import the `target` {acm-short} hub into it in `hosted` mode. Follow the steps below to provision the environment:

> . Install the {global-hub} operator and local agent in a {global-hub} custom resource. 

Reviewer: step1: Install the {global-hub} operator in your `source` hub

> . Enable the {global-hub} custom resource on the `source` hub.  

Reviewer: Create the {global-hub} operand, which enable the local agent.

> . Configure the {global-hub} custom resource to work within a Brownfield environment by applying the following YAML in the `source` hub: 

Reviewer: suggest combine these two step into:

step2: Create the {global-hub} operand, which enable the local agent, by applying the following YAML in {global-hub}, or `source` hub.

Reviewer: step3: Import the `target` hub into the {global-hub} cluster in hosted mode by adding label `global-hub.open-cluster-management.io/deploy-mode=hosted` to the `target` managed hub cluster

NOTE: require the {global hub} enabled the local-cluster in the hosted mode.

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: operator.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha4
  kind: MulticlusterGlobalHub
  metadata:
    name: multiclusterglobalhub
    namespace: multicluster-global-hub
  spec:
    availabilityConfig: High
    installAgentOnLocal: true
----

[#migrating-managed-clusters]
== Migrating managed clusters 

> After you configured your {global-hub} custom resource to work within a Brownfield environment, migrate your managed clusters by importing them in the `Hosted` mode. 

Reviewer: After you configured your {global-hub} custom resource to work within a Brownfield environment, and import your `target` {acm-short} hub in `hosted` mode. You can start the migration process.

[#global-hub-migrating-managed-clusters]
= Migrating managed clusters (Technology Preview)

> *Technology Preview:* You can access a  migration feature in {global-hub} 1.5. You can migrate managed clusters in the following situations: across {acm} versions, from one {acm-short} hub cluster to another, and the associated Kubernetes resources, such as,  `ConfigMaps` and `Secrets`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*Technology Preview:* You can access the `ManagedClusterMigration` feature in {global-hub} 1.5. You can migrate managed clusters across {acm} versions, from one {acm-short} hub cluster to another, and for the associated Kubernetes resources, such as `ConfigMaps` and `Secrets`. 
```

Reviewer 3: Not sure if it should be "for"-- maybe it should be "to" -- but we needed some kind of preposition to match the other situations, and we can remove situation.

Reviewer 3: Also, let's use the name of the feature or resource when we can in the short description.

.Table list of _Phase_ and _Condition_
|===
| Phase | Condition 

| `Pending`
| Performs one migration at a time. Other migrations remain `Pending`. 

| `Validating`
| Verifies that the clusters and hub clusters are valid. 

| `Initializing`
| Prepares the `target` and `source` hub cluster. 

| `Deploying`
| Migrates selected clusters and their resources. 

| `Registering`
| Restarts the registration of the cluster to the `target` hub cluster. 

| `Cleaning`
| Cleans the resources from both `target` and `source` hub cluster and manages the `rollback` if needed. 

| `Completed`
| Confirms the migrations are successfully completed. 

| `Failed`
| Confirms that the migration has failed and includes this failure message in the `status`.  
|===

*Note:* The `Validating` phase does not check resources such as `ConfigMap` and `Secret`. If you specify resources that do not exist in the `source` hub cluster, the migration fails in the `Deploying` phase. 

[#preparing-migration-environment]
== Preparing the migration environment 

> To prepare your {global-hub} migration environment, create a Brownfield environment. You create a Brownfield environment by deploying the {global-hub} control plane directly into the `source` and `target` {acm-short} hub cluster. Then, you configure the {global-hub} migration environment into the Brownfield environment that you created and import the `source` hub cluster in the `Hosted` mode. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To prepare your {global-hub} migration environment, create a Brownfield environment. You create a Brownfield environment by deploying the {global-hub} control plane directly into the `source` and `target` hub cluster. Then, you configure the {global-hub} migration environment into the Brownfield environment that you created and import the `source` hub cluster in the `Hosted` mode. 
```

Reviewer 3: Since you made it clear that it is an ACM Hub cluster, you don't have to say it each time.

Complete the following steps: 

. Install the {global-hub} operator in the `source` {acm-short} hub cluster. 

> . Enable the `local-cluster` in the {global-hub} custom operator that is running in the `source` {acm-short} hub cluster. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Enable the `local-cluster` in the {global-hub} custom operator that is running in the `source` hub cluster. 
```

. Apply the following YAML to create the {global-hub} operand and enable the {global-hub} agent to run locally:

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: operator.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha4
  kind: MulticlusterGlobalHub
  metadata:
    name: multiclusterglobalhub
    namespace: multicluster-global-hub
  spec:
    availabilityConfig: High
    installAgentOnLocal: true
----
+

> . Import the target {acm-short} hub cluster into {global-hub} that is in the `Hosted` mode. Add the following label to the managed hub cluster:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Import the target hub cluster into {global-hub} that is in the `Hosted` mode. Add the following label to the managed hub cluster:
```

Reviewer 3: that is in the `Hosted` mode (not clear here -- into a hosted mode global hub cluster?) Check on this and reword as needed. 

If that is what we mean:

"into a GH **cluster** that is in hosted mode. (?)

+
[oc,bash]
----
global-hub.open-cluster-management.io/deploy-mode=hosted
----

[#migrating-managed-clusters]
== Migrating managed clusters 

> After you configure your {global-hub} migration environment, migrate your managed clusters. Complete the following steps to migrate the sample, `cluster1`, and its associated resources from `hub1` to `hub2`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After you configure your {global-hub} migration environment, migrate your managed clusters. Complete the following steps to migrate the `cluster1` sample and the associated resources from `hub1` to `hub2`:
```

Reviewer 3: remove commas where you can.

> . Create a `ManagedClusterMigration` resource in the {global-hub} migration environment. Apply the following YAML: 

Reviewer 3: We normally give them an `oc apply` file.

. Create the following YAML file.

<all your yaml and instructions.

. Apply the resource. Run the following command. 

This is one thing we should do before we merge instead of assuming they know ow to apply the file--get that command from dev team. We have examples of that set up in the doc if you need it.

[#global-hub-migrating-managed-clusters]
= Migrating managed clusters (Technology Preview)

You can access a Technology Preview  migration feature in {global-hub} 1.5. With this feature, you can migrate managed clusters in the following situations: across {acm} versions, from one {acm-short} hub cluster to another, and the associated Kubernetes resources, such as,  `ConfigMaps` and `Secrets`. 

By using {global-hub} to migrate your managed cluster, you have a unified process that helps you perform the following actions: 

> * Reorganize workloads among {acm-short} hub clusters. 

Reviewer 3: Either these are not complete sentences without punctuation or they are changed to be punctuated complete sentences. You can choose.

* Move clusters and their resources together. 
* Automate cluster registration and cleanup. 
* Tracks individual steps with detailed status updates. 

> To fully migrate your managed clusters and to understand the process, complete the following sections: 

Reviewer 3: Confusing.

Reviewer 3: You complete every process in the doc to "understand the process," -- let's remove that. Completing a process to understand a process is very odd to have in tech doc.

. <<prerequisites, Prerequisites>> 
. <<understanding-migration, Understanding the managed cluster migration process>> 
. <<preparing-migration-environment, Preparing the migration environment>> 
. <<migrating-managed-clusters, Migrating managed clusters>> 

[#prerequisites]
== Prerequisites 

To migrate your managed clusters, you need the following components: 

* The {global-hub} operator to organize the migration workflow.

> * The `source` {acm-short} hub to manage the clusters and their associated resources. 

Reviewer 3: This needs to be edited more.

hub **cluster** (always) -- change elsewhere

please remove pronounces that personify if you can...that requires some editing.

"manage the clusters and the associated resources." for example

* The `target`{acm-short} hub to receive the migrated clusters and their associated resources. 

> 

Reviewer 3: change hub

[#understanding-migration]

> == Understanding the managed cluster migration process 

Reviewer 3: Please do not title this "understanding" (the reader is reading to understand, that is a given.)
Additionally that is a gerund, which denotes this is a task.

It's simply a concept unless you have steps.

It's just an overview.

> == Understanding the managed cluster migration process 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
== Managed cluster migration process 
```

[#preparing-migration-environment]
== Preparing the migration environment 

To prepare your {global-hub} migration environment, create a Brownfield environment. You create a Brownfield environment by deploying the {global-hub} control plane directly into the `source` and `target` {acm-short} hub. Then, you configure the {global-hub} migration environment into the Brownfield environment that you created and import the `source` hub in the `Hosted` mode. 

Complete the following steps: 

. Install the {global-hub} operator in the `source` {acm-short} hub. 
. Enable the `local-cluster` in the {global-hub} custom operator that is running in the `source` {acm-short} hub. 
. Create the {global-hub} operand and enable the {global-hub} agent to run locally by applying the following YAML:

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: operator.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha4
  kind: MulticlusterGlobalHub
  metadata:
    name: multiclusterglobalhub
    namespace: multicluster-global-hub
  spec:
    availabilityConfig: High
    installAgentOnLocal: true
----
+

> . Import the target {acm-short} hub into {global-hub} that is in the `Hosted` mode by adding the following label to the managed hub cluster:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Import the target {acm-short} hub cluster into {global-hub} that is in the `Hosted` mode by adding the following label to the managed hub cluster:
```

+
[oc,bash]
----
global-hub.open-cluster-management.io/deploy-mode=hosted
----

[#migrating-managed-clusters]
== Migrating managed clusters 

> After configuring your {global-hub} migration environment, you migrate your managed clusters. For an example of migrating the sample, `cluster1`

Reviewer 3: it's just "migrate your clusters." not sure why we need "you migrate your managed clusters." See if that is elsewhere. See change below.

Reviewer 3: For an example of migrating the sample, `cluster1`...complete the steps...

Why are you completing the steps for an _example_? This may come to us like this but we need to edit.

> After configuring your {global-hub} migration environment, you migrate your managed clusters. For an example of migrating the sample, `cluster1`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After you configure your {global-hub} migration environment, migrate your managed clusters. For an example of migrating the sample, `cluster1`
```

and its associated resources from `hub1` to `hub2`, complete the following steps: 

> . Start the migration by create a `ManagedClusterMigration` resource in the {global-hub} migration environment by applying the following YAML: 

Reviewer 3: too much "by" here, please edit this to be more active.

Reviewer 3: See Slack discussion from today.

Reviewer 3: Create a `ManagedClusterMigration` resource in the {global-hub} migration environment. Apply the following YAML:

For example

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: global-hub.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: ManagedClusterMigration
metadata:
  name: migration-sample
spec:
  from: local-cluster <1>
  includedManagedClusters: 
    - cluster1 <2> 
  includedResources: <3> 
    - configmap/default/foo
    - secret/cluster1/bar
  to: hub2 <4> 
----

> <1> The `source` hub is a `local-cluster` that {global-hub} installed in `hub1`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<1> The `source` hub cluster is a `local-cluster` that {global-hub} installed in `hub1`. 
```

<2> The managed cluster that is named `cluster1` and is being migrated to `hub2`. The managed cluster in `hub1` and `hub2` must be different from one another. 

> <3> Specifies the Kubernetes resources for you to migrate by using the format, `kind/namespace/name`. For example: 

Reviewer 3: <3> Specifies the Kubernetes resources for you to migrate by using the `kind/namespace/name` format. See the following example:

Something like this. 

**For example:** should always change in case of a screen reader and to orient the user. 

"Format" afterwards reduces the need for a comma.

* `configmap/default/foo` is a `Configmap` in the `default` namespace that is named `foo`.
* `secret/cluster1/bar` is a `Secret` in the `cluster1` namespace that is named `bar`. 
<4> The `target` hub is `hub2`. 
+ 

> . In the `status` resource section, verify that your migration status resembles the following status: 

Reviewer 3: Should be Verify for `"True"` status?

[#global-hub-migrating-managed-clusters]
= Migrating managed clusters (Technology Preview)

> 

Reviewer: Could you please add the first paragraph to specify the supported versions? For example:

Currently, the migration feature is available as a Technology Preview in Global Hub 1.5. It supports migrating clusters from ACM 2.14 to ACM 2.14, as well as from ACM 2.13 to ACM 2.14.

Reviewer 3: How we announce tech preview in the doc at ACM:
**Technology Preview:** (Then the description) -- please look at the doc and the internal doc for examples -- I believe we go in to this in those resources.

So that needs to be edited a bit. We also do not need to say "With this feature," (It may come to you in a draft; we edit all that for conciseness as writers. No need to say that in short descriptions unless we are talking about multiple features at once)

[#preparing-migration-environment]
== Preparing the migration environment 

To prepare your {global-hub} migration environment, create a Brownfield environment. You create a Brownfield environment by deploying the {global-hub} control plane directly into the `source` and `target` {acm-short} hub. Then, you configure the {global-hub} migration environment into the Brownfield environment that you created and import the `source` hub in the `Hosted` mode. 

Complete the following steps: 

. Install the {global-hub} operator in the `source` {acm-short} hub. 
. Enable the `local-cluster` in the {global-hub} custom operator that is running in the `source` {acm-short} hub. 
. Create the {global-hub} operand and enable the {global-hub} agent to run locally by applying the following YAML:

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: operator.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha4
  kind: MulticlusterGlobalHub
  metadata:
    name: multiclusterglobalhub
    namespace: multicluster-global-hub
  spec:
    availabilityConfig: High
    installAgentOnLocal: true
----
+
. Import the `target` {acm-short} hub into the {global-hub} migration environment. 

> . Import the {global-hub} migration environment into the `Hosted` mode adding the following label to the managed hub cluster:

Reviewer: You can combine these two lines(line 93 ~ line 94) into one with:

. Import the `target` {acm-short} hub into {global-hub}  in `Hosted` mode by adding the following label to the managed hub cluster:

[#global-hub-migrating-managed-clusters]
= Migrating managed clusters (Technology Preview)

> *Technology Preview:* You can access the `ManagedClusterMigration` feature in {global-hub} 1.5. You can migrate managed clusters across {acm} versions, from one {acm-short} hub cluster to another, and for the associated Kubernetes resources, such as `ConfigMaps` and `Secrets`. 

Reviewer: Please also add: "It supports migrating clusters from ACM 2.14 to ACM 2.14, as well as from ACM 2.13 to ACM 2.14." in here

<3> Specifies the Kubernetes resources for you to migrate by using the format `kind/namespace/name`. See the following examples: 
* `configmap/default/foo` is a `Configmap` in the `default` namespace that is named `foo`.
* `secret/cluster1/bar` is a `Secret` in the `cluster1` namespace that is named `bar`. 
<4> The `target` hub is `hub2`. 
+ 
. In the `status` resource section, verify that your migration status is `True` and resembles the following status: 

+
[source,bash]
----
status:
  conditions:
    - type: ResourceValidated
      status: "True"
      message: Migration resources have been validated
    - type: ResourceInitialized
      status: "True"
      message: All source and target hubs have been initialized
    - type: ResourceDeployed
      status: "True"
      message: Resources have been successfully deployed to the target hub cluster
    - type: ClusterRegistered
      status: "True"
      message: All migrated clusters have been successfully registered
    - type: ResourceCleaned
      status: "True"
      message: Resources have been successfully cleaned up from the hub clusters
  phase: Completed
----
+

> . Apply the resource. Run the following command: 

Reviewer 2: hi @jc-berger , can you please move this step to after line 130, that means this command should put after the user's yaml file.  Like: 
1. user created yaml
2. oc apply -f user_yaml -n global_installed_namespace
3. check the status

| `Initializing`
| Prepares the `target` and `source` hub cluster. 

| `Deploying`
| Migrates selected clusters and their resources. 

| `Registering`
| Restarts the registration of the cluster to the `target` hub cluster. 

| `Cleaning`
| Cleans the resources from both `target` and `source` hub cluster and manages the `rollback` if needed. 

| `Completed`
| Confirms the migrations are successfully completed. 

| `Failed`
| Confirms that the migration has failed and includes this failure message in the `status`.  
|===

*Note:* The `Validating` phase does not check resources such as `ConfigMap` and `Secret`. If you specify resources that do not exist in the `source` hub cluster, the migration fails in the `Deploying` phase. 

See the following table for the support matrix and the corresponding {global-hub}m `source`, and `target` hub versions: 

.Table list of supported versions 
|===
| {global-hub} version for migration | `source` hub version | `target` hub version

| {global-hub} 1.5
| {acm-short} 2.14
| {acm-short} 2.14

| {global-hub} 1.5
| {acm-short} 2.13
| {acm-short} 2.14
|===

[#preparing-migration-environment]
== Preparing the migration environment 

> To prepare your {global-hub} migration environment, create a Brownfield environment. You create a Brownfield environment by deploying the {global-hub} control plane directly into the `source` and `target` hub cluster. Then, you configure the {global-hub} migration environment into the Brownfield environment that you created and import the `source` hub cluster in the `Hosted` mode. 

Author: Maybe say "you can create a Brownfield" because Brownfield is one option 

Technically, there is no migration environment.  Migration is a resource.

Part 1: is global hub operator 

Part 2: is a Global hub operand

> To prepare your {global-hub} migration environment, create a Brownfield environment. You create a Brownfield environment by deploying the {global-hub} control plane directly into the `source` and `target` hub cluster. Then, you configure the {global-hub} migration environment into the Brownfield environment that you created and import the `source` hub cluster in the `Hosted` mode. 

Author: ```suggestion
To prepare your {global-hub} migration resource, create a Brownfield environment. You create a Brownfield environment by deploying the {global-hub} control plane directly into the `source` and `target` hub cluster. 
```

[#global-hub-migrating-managed-clusters]
= Migrating managed clusters (Technology Preview)

> *Technology Preview:* You can access the `ManagedClusterMigration` feature in {global-hub} 1.5. You can migrate managed clusters from one {acm-short} hub cluster to another and across versions, for example, from {acm-short} 2.13 to {acm-short} 2.14. You can also migrate associated Kubernetes resources, such as `ConfigMaps` and `Secrets`. 

Reviewer 4: [Optional] I recall that we capitalize features. You do not necessarily have to accept this suggestion. We can talk as a team and agree. 
```suggestion
*Technology Preview:* You can access the Managed Cluster Migration feature in {global-hub} 1.5. You can migrate managed clusters from one {acm-short} hub cluster to another and across versions, for example, from {acm-short} 2.13 to {acm-short} 2.14. You can also migrate associated Kubernetes resources, such as `ConfigMaps` and `Secrets`. 
```

By using {global-hub} to migrate your managed cluster, you have a unified process that helps you perform the following actions: 

* Reorganize workloads among {acm-short} hub clusters
* Move clusters and their resources together 
* Automate cluster registration and cleanup 
* Tracks individual steps with detailed status updates 

To fully migrate your managed clusters, complete the following sections: 

. <<prerequisites, Prerequisites>> 
. <<migration-process, Managed cluster migration process>> 
. <<preparing-migration-environment, Preparing the migration environment>> 
. <<migrating-managed-clusters, Migrating managed clusters>> 

[#prerequisites]
== Prerequisites 

To migrate your managed clusters, you need the following components: 

* The {global-hub} operator to organize the migration workflow.
* The `source` {acm-short} hub cluster to manage the clusters and the associated resources. 

> * The `target`{acm-short} hub cluster to receive the migrated clusters and the associated resources. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The `target` {acm-short} hub cluster to receive the migrated clusters and the associated resources. 
```

| `Initializing`
| Prepares the `target` and `source` hub cluster. 

| `Deploying`
| Migrates selected clusters and their resources. 

| `Registering`
| Restarts the registration of the cluster to the `target` hub cluster. 

| `Cleaning`
| Cleans the resources from both `target` and `source` hub cluster and manages the `rollback` if needed. 

| `Completed`
| Confirms the migrations are successfully completed. 

| `Failed`
| Confirms that the migration has failed and includes this failure message in the `status`.  
|===

*Note:* The `Validating` phase does not check resources such as `ConfigMap` and `Secret`. If you specify resources that do not exist in the `source` hub cluster, the migration fails in the `Deploying` phase. 

See the following table for the support matrix and the corresponding {global-hub} `source`, and `target` hub versions: 

.Table list of supported versions 
|===
| {global-hub} version for migration | `source` hub version | `target` hub version

| {global-hub} 1.5
| {acm-short} 2.14
| {acm-short} 2.14

| {global-hub} 1.5
| {acm-short} 2.13
| {acm-short} 2.14
|===

[#preparing-migration-environment]
== Preparing the migration environment 

> To prepare your {global-hub} environment for migration, you can create a Brownfield environment by deploying the {global-hub} control plane directly into the `source` hub cluster. Then, you can import the `target` hub cluster into the{global-hub} environment that is in the `Hosted` mode. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To prepare your {global-hub} environment for migration, you can create a Brownfield environment by deploying the {global-hub} control plane directly into the `source` hub cluster. Then, you can import the `target` hub cluster into the {global-hub} environment that is in the `Hosted` mode. 
```

Complete the following steps: 

. Install the {global-hub} operator in the `source` {acm-short} hub cluster. 
. Enable the `local-cluster` in the {global-hub} custom operator that is running in the `source` hub cluster. 
. Apply the following YAML to create the {global-hub} operand and enable the {global-hub} agent to run locally:

+
[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: operator.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha4
  kind: MulticlusterGlobalHub
  metadata:
    name: multiclusterglobalhub
    namespace: multicluster-global-hub
  spec:
    availabilityConfig: High
    installAgentOnLocal: true
----
+
. Import the target hub cluster into {global-hub} that is in the `Hosted` mode. Add the following label to the managed hub cluster:

+

> [oc,bash]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[source,bash]
```

----
global-hub.open-cluster-management.io/deploy-mode=hosted
----

[#migrating-managed-clusters]
== Migrating managed clusters 

> After you configure your {global-hub} migration environment, migrate your managed clusters. Complete the following steps to migrate the `cluster1` sample and the associated resources from `hub1` to `hub2`:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After you configure your {global-hub} migration environment, migrate your managed clusters. Complete the following steps to migrate the `cluster1` sample and the associated resources from `hub1` to `hub2` hub clusters:
```

. Create a `ManagedClusterMigration` resource in the {global-hub} migration environment. Apply the following YAML: 

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: global-hub.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: ManagedClusterMigration
metadata:
  name: migration-sample
spec:
  from: local-cluster <1>
  includedManagedClusters: 
    - cluster1 <2> 
  includedResources: <3> 
    - configmap/default/foo
    - secret/cluster1/bar
  to: hub2 <4> 
----

> <1> The `source` hub cluster is a `local-cluster` that {global-hub} installed in `hub1`. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<1> The `source` hub cluster is a `local-cluster` that {global-hub} installed in `hub1` hub cluster. 
```

> <2> The managed cluster that is named `cluster1` and is being migrated to `hub2`. The managed cluster in `hub1` and `hub2` must be different from one another. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<2> The managed cluster that is named `cluster1` and is being migrated to `hub2` hub cluster. The managed cluster in `hub1` and `hub2` hub clusters must be different from one another. 
```

> <3> Specifies the Kubernetes resources for you to migrate by using the format `kind/namespace/name`. See the following examples: 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<3> Specifies the Kubernetes resources for you to migrate by using the following format, `kind/namespace/name`. See the following examples: 
```

* `configmap/default/foo` is a `Configmap` in the `default` namespace that is named `foo`.
* `secret/cluster1/bar` is a `Secret` in the `cluster1` namespace that is named `bar`. 

> <4> The `target` hub is `hub2`. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<4> The `target` hub cluster is `hub2`. 
```

+ 
. Apply the resource. Run the following command: 
+
[oc,bash]
----
apply -f user_yaml -n global_installed_namespace
----
. In the `status` resource section, verify that your migration status is `True` and resembles the following status: 

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Apply the resource. Run the following command: 

+
[source,bash]
----
apply -f user_yaml -n global_installed_namespace
----
. In the `status` resource section, verify that your migration status is `True` and resembles the following status: 

```
